# DesignSpace.db - Database of Pt Monolayer Structures
## Description
The DesignSpace.db database is an extensive collection of Pt monolayer (PtML) structures focusing on 1st and 2nd generation PtML core-shell alloys. These structures are designed to optimize Pt surface activity while minimizing Pt content.

## Content Overview
The database encompasses 1st generation alloys featuring a PtML pseudomorphically deposited on a core metal or alloy and 2nd generation alloys incorporating a buffer layer beneath the Pt. It explores various metal selections, compositions, and configurations, presenting a diverse design space for PtML electrocatalysts.

## Accessing the Database
Access the database using the provided `ase.db` file through Python's `ASE` package or SQLite-compatible tools. Querying enables users to retrieve specific PtML structures based on metal combinations, crystal structures, compositions, and surface configurations.


## Structure and Organization
The database contains structures of 1st and 2nd generation PtML core-shell alloys systematically generated by enumerating combinations of 26 transition metals. It encompasses AB and A$_3$B type structures with FCC, BCC, HCP, and ST phases, originating from the Materials Project database.

## Usage Examples
Python Script Example:
```
from ase.db import connect

# Connecting to the database file
db_OH = connect('DesignSpace_OH.db')

# Example: Querying information from the database
# Fetching all entries
all_entries = list(db_OH.select())

# Querying based on specific criteria
results = db_OH.select(crystal_system="hexagonal", facet='1000')
for entry in results:
    print(entry.pretty_formula)
```

## Acknowledgments
We acknowledge the [Materials Project database](https://next-gen.materialsproject.org) for providing the foundational data used to construct this database.

## References and Documentation
Materials Project Database - Source of foundational data for the PtML structures.
